README.md, before:

# XML Disassembler

[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/xml-disassembler.svg?label=xml-disassembler)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xml-disassembler) [![Downloads/week](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/xml-disassembler.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/xml-disassembler)

A JavaScript package to disassemble XML files into smaller, more manageable files and re-assemble them when needed.

## Background

Large XML files, especially those generated by external tools, can be challenging to review and manage. These files contains thousands of lines of elements, making it difficult to track changes during version control and easy to lose changes if these files are automatically generated.
Traditional diff algorithms are not always suitable for these types of files, and manually reviewing changes can be time-consuming and error-prone.

The XML Disassembler package addresses this issue by breaking down large XML files into smaller, more digestible chunks. This makes it easier to review changes, identify additions and deletions, and collaborate on version control repositories in GitHub, GitLab, etc. that store XML files.

## Trade-offs

Using a custom XML diff algorithm can be beneficial in some cases. However, these algorithms are often complex and require significant expertise to implement correctly. Additionally, they may not be compatible with all types of XML files or your version control instance and could introduce errors during the diffing process.

The XML Disassembler package offers a simpler alternative by breaking down XML files into smaller parts. This approach is more straightforward and easier to understand, making it suitable for a wider range of users. It also allows for more granular control over the review process, as each individual file can be reviewed separately.

While there are trade-offs between using a custom diff algorithm and the XML Disassembler package, the latter provides a practical and accessible solution for managing large XML files.

## Install

Install the package using NPM:

```
npm install xml-disassembler
```

## Disassembling Files

Import the `DisassembleXMLFileHandler` class from the package.

```typescript
/* 
FLAGS
- xmlPath: Directory containing the XML files to disassemble (must be directory). This will only disassemble files in the immediate directory.
- uniqueIdElements: (Optional) Comma-separated list of unique and required ID elements used to name disassembled files for nested elements. 
                               Defaults to SHA-256 hash if unique ID elements are undefined or not found.
- purge: (Optional) Boolean value. If set to true, purge pre-existing disassembled directories prior to disassembling the file.
                               Defaults to false.
*/
import { DisassembleXMLFileHandler } from "xml-disassembler";

const handler = new DisassembleXMLFileHandler();
await handler.disassemble({
  xmlPath: "test/baselines/general",
  uniqueIdElements:
    "application,apexClass,name,externalDataSource,flow,object,apexPage,recordType,tab,field",
  purge: true,
});
```

Example:

An XML with the following nested and leaf elements

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<PermissionSet xmlns="http://soap.sforce.com/2006/04/metadata">
    <applicationVisibilities>
        <application>JobApps__Recruiting</application>
        <visible>true</visible>
    </applicationVisibilities>
    <classAccesses>
        <apexClass>Send_Email_Confirmation</apexClass>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
    </classAccesses>
    <fieldPermissions>
        <editable>true</editable>
        <field>Job_Request__c.Salary__c</field>
        <readable>true</readable>
    </fieldPermissions>
    <description>Grants all rights needed for an HR administrator to manage employees.</description>
    <label>HR Administration</label>
    <userLicense>Salesforce</userLicense>
    <objectPermissions>
        <allowCreate>true</allowCreate>
        <allowDelete>true</allowDelete>
        <allowEdit>true</allowEdit>
        <allowRead>true</allowRead>
        <viewAllRecords>true</viewAllRecords>
        <modifyAllRecords>true</modifyAllRecords>
        <object>Job_Request__c</object>
    </objectPermissions>
    <pageAccesses>
        <apexPage>Job_Request_Web_Form</apexPage>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
    </pageAccesses>
    <recordTypeVisibilities>
        <recordType>Recruiting.DevManager</recordType>
        <visible>true</visible>
    </recordTypeVisibilities>
    <tabSettings>
        <tab>Job_Request__c</tab>
        <visibility>Available</visibility>
    </tabSettings>
    <userPermissions>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <name>APIEnabled</name>
    </userPermissions>
</PermissionSet>
```

will be disassembled as such:

- Each nested element (`<recordTypeVisibilities>`, `<applicationVisibilities>`, `pageAccesses`, etc.) will be disassembled into sub-directories by the nested element name. If a unique & required ID element (`application` is the unique ID element for `<applicationVisibilities>`) is found, the disassembled file will be named using it. Otherwise, the disassembled files for nested elements will be named using the SHA-256 of the element contents.
- Each leaf element (`<description>`, `<label>`, `<userLicense>`) will be disassembled into the same file, which will have the same file-name as the original file.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mcarvin8/xml-disassembler/main/.github/images/disassembled.png">

<br>

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mcarvin8/xml-disassembler/main/.github/images/disassembled-hashes.png">

<br>

## Reassembling Files

Import the `ReassembleXMLFileHandler` class from the package.

```typescript
/* 
FLAGS
- xmlPath: Path to the disassembled XML files to reassemble (must be a directory)
- fileExtension: (Optional) Desired file extension for the final XML (default: `.xml`)
*/
import { ReassembleXMLFileHandler } from "xml-disassembler";

const handler = new ReassembleXMLFileHandler();
await handler.reassemble({
  xmlPath: "test/baselines/general/HR_Admin",
  fileExtension: "permissionset-meta.xml",
});
```

_NOTE_: You should be reassembling files created by this package's `DisassembleXMLFileHandler` class for intended results. This class will assume all disassembled files in `xmlPath` have the same XML Root Element.

The reassembled XML file will be created in the parent directory of `xmlPath` and will overwrite the original file used to create the original disassembled directories, if it still exists and the `fileExtension` flag matches the original file extension.

## Use Case

Refer to the Salesforce plugin, [SFDX Decomposer](https://github.com/mcarvin8/sfdx-decomposer-plugin), to see a use case of this package:

- [Disassemble Use Case](https://github.com/mcarvin8/sfdx-decomposer-plugin/blob/main/src/service/decomposeFileHandler.ts)
- [Reassemble Use Case](https://github.com/mcarvin8/sfdx-decomposer-plugin/blob/main/src/service/recomposeFileHandler.ts)

## XML Parser

The XML parser, which uses the `fast-xml-parser` package, is configured to retain any Character Data (CDATA) values (`<![CDATA[some stuff]]>`) and comments (`<translation><!-- Four --></translation>`) in the original XML file.

## Logging

By default, the package will not print any debugging statements to the console.

To configure logging, import the `setLogLevel` function from the package and run the function with `debug` to print debugging statements to a log file.

The log file (`disassemble.log`) will be created when running the package in all cases, even when the `setLogLevel` is not explicity called as shown below. The file will be created but empty by default when running the `ReassembleXMLFileHandler` and `DisassembleXMLFileHandler` classes.

**NOTE**: The logging package used, `log4js`, requires `fs-extra` to be installed in your project as a dependency (`npm install --save fs-extra`).

```typescript
import {
  DisassembleXMLFileHandler,
  ReassembleXMLFileHandler,
  setLogLevel,
} from "xml-disassembler";

const debug: boolean = true;

if (debug) {
  setLogLevel("debug");
}

const disassembleHandler = new DisassembleXMLFileHandler();
await disassembleHandler.disassemble({
  xmlPath: "test/baselines/general",
  uniqueIdElements:
    "application,apexClass,name,externalDataSource,flow,object,apexPage,recordType,tab,field",
  purge: true,
});

const reassembleHandler = new ReassembleXMLFileHandler();
await reassembleHandler.reassemble({
  xmlPath: "test/baselines/general/HR_Admin",
  fileExtension: "permissionset-meta.xml",
});
```

## Template

This project was created from a template provided by [Allan Oricil](https://github.com/AllanOricil). Thank you Allan!

His original [license](https://github.com/AllanOricil/js-template/blob/main/LICENSE) remains in this project.

Commit message:

feat: rename `purge` flag to `prePurge` and add `postPurge` flag to disassemble class

README.md, after:

# XML Disassembler

[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/xml-disassembler.svg?label=xml-disassembler)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xml-disassembler) [![Downloads/week](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/xml-disassembler.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/xml-disassembler)

A JavaScript package to disassemble XML files into smaller, more manageable files and re-assemble them when needed.

## Background

Large XML files, especially those generated by external tools, can be challenging to review and manage. These files contains thousands of lines of elements, making it difficult to track changes during version control and easy to lose changes if these files are automatically generated.
Traditional diff algorithms are not always suitable for these types of files, and manually reviewing changes can be time-consuming and error-prone.

The XML Disassembler package addresses this issue by breaking down large XML files into smaller, more digestible chunks. This makes it easier to review changes, identify additions and deletions, and collaborate on version control repositories in GitHub, GitLab, etc. that store XML files.

## Trade-offs

Using a custom XML diff algorithm can be beneficial in some cases. However, these algorithms are often complex and require significant expertise to implement correctly. Additionally, they may not be compatible with all types of XML files or your version control instance and could introduce errors during the diffing process.

The XML Disassembler package offers a simpler alternative by breaking down XML files into smaller parts. This approach is more straightforward and easier to understand, making it suitable for a wider range of users. It also allows for more granular control over the review process, as each individual file can be reviewed separately.

While there are trade-offs between using a custom diff algorithm and the XML Disassembler package, the latter provides a practical and accessible solution for managing large XML files.

## Install

Install the package using NPM:

```
npm install xml-disassembler
```

## Disassembling Files

Disassemble 1 or multiple XML files in the immediate directory (`xmlPath`), without recursion. Each XML will be disassembled into their own sub-directories using their base name (everything before the first `.` in the file-name).

Import the `DisassembleXMLFileHandler` class from the package.

```typescript
/* 
FLAGS
- xmlPath: Directory containing the XML files to disassemble (must be directory). This will only disassemble files in the immediate directory.
- uniqueIdElements: (Optional) Comma-separated list of unique and required ID elements used to name disassembled files for nested elements. 
                               Defaults to SHA-256 hash if unique ID elements are undefined or not found.
- prePurge:  (Optional) Boolean value. If set to true, purge pre-existing disassembled directories prior to disassembling the file.
                               Defaults to false.
- postPurge: (Optional) Boolean value. If set to true, purge the original XML file after disassembling it.
                               Defaults to false.                               
*/
import { DisassembleXMLFileHandler } from "xml-disassembler";

const handler = new DisassembleXMLFileHandler();
await handler.disassemble({
  xmlPath: "test/baselines/general",
  uniqueIdElements:
    "application,apexClass,name,externalDataSource,flow,object,apexPage,recordType,tab,field",
  prePurge: true,
  postPurge: true,
});
```

Example:

An XML with the following nested and leaf elements

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<PermissionSet xmlns="http://soap.sforce.com/2006/04/metadata">
    <applicationVisibilities>
        <application>JobApps__Recruiting</application>
        <visible>true</visible>
    </applicationVisibilities>
    <classAccesses>
        <apexClass>Send_Email_Confirmation</apexClass>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
    </classAccesses>
    <fieldPermissions>
        <editable>true</editable>
        <field>Job_Request__c.Salary__c</field>
        <readable>true</readable>
    </fieldPermissions>
    <description>Grants all rights needed for an HR administrator to manage employees.</description>
    <label>HR Administration</label>
    <userLicense>Salesforce</userLicense>
    <objectPermissions>
        <allowCreate>true</allowCreate>
        <allowDelete>true</allowDelete>
        <allowEdit>true</allowEdit>
        <allowRead>true</allowRead>
        <viewAllRecords>true</viewAllRecords>
        <modifyAllRecords>true</modifyAllRecords>
        <object>Job_Request__c</object>
    </objectPermissions>
    <pageAccesses>
        <apexPage>Job_Request_Web_Form</apexPage>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
    </pageAccesses>
    <recordTypeVisibilities>
        <recordType>Recruiting.DevManager</recordType>
        <visible>true</visible>
    </recordTypeVisibilities>
    <tabSettings>
        <tab>Job_Request__c</tab>
        <visibility>Available</visibility>
    </tabSettings>
    <userPermissions>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <name>APIEnabled</name>
    </userPermissions>
</PermissionSet>
```

will be disassembled as such:

- Each nested element (`<recordTypeVisibilities>`, `<applicationVisibilities>`, `pageAccesses`, etc.) will be disassembled into sub-directories by the nested element name. If a unique & required ID element (`application` is the unique ID element for `<applicationVisibilities>`) is found, the disassembled file will be named using it. Otherwise, the disassembled files for nested elements will be named using the SHA-256 of the element contents.
- Each leaf element (`<description>`, `<label>`, `<userLicense>`) will be disassembled into the same file, which will have the same file-name as the original file.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mcarvin8/xml-disassembler/main/.github/images/disassembled.png">

<br>

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mcarvin8/xml-disassembler/main/.github/images/disassembled-hashes.png">

<br>

## Reassembling Files

Reassemble 1 XML directory (`xmlPath`) containing disassembled files back into 1 XML file.

Import the `ReassembleXMLFileHandler` class from the package.

```typescript
/* 
FLAGS
- xmlPath: Path to the disassembled XML files to reassemble (must be a directory)
- fileExtension: (Optional) Desired file extension for the final XML (default: `.xml`)
*/
import { ReassembleXMLFileHandler } from "xml-disassembler";

const handler = new ReassembleXMLFileHandler();
await handler.reassemble({
  xmlPath: "test/baselines/general/HR_Admin",
  fileExtension: "permissionset-meta.xml",
});
```

_NOTE_: You should be reassembling files created by this package's `DisassembleXMLFileHandler` class for intended results. This class will assume all disassembled files in `xmlPath` have the same XML Root Element.

The reassembled XML file will be created in the parent directory of `xmlPath` and will overwrite the original file used to create the original disassembled directories, if it still exists and the `fileExtension` flag matches the original file extension.

## Use Case

Refer to the Salesforce plugin, [SFDX Decomposer](https://github.com/mcarvin8/sfdx-decomposer-plugin), to see a use case of this package:

- [Disassemble Use Case](https://github.com/mcarvin8/sfdx-decomposer-plugin/blob/main/src/service/decomposeFileHandler.ts)
- [Reassemble Use Case](https://github.com/mcarvin8/sfdx-decomposer-plugin/blob/main/src/service/recomposeFileHandler.ts)

## XML Parser

The XML parser, which uses the `fast-xml-parser` package, is configured to retain any Character Data (CDATA) values (`<![CDATA[some stuff]]>`) and comments (`<translation><!-- Four --></translation>`) in the original XML file.

## Logging

By default, the package will not print any debugging statements to the console.

To configure logging, import the `setLogLevel` function from the package and run the function with `debug` to print debugging statements to a log file.

The log file (`disassemble.log`) will be created when running the package in all cases, even when the `setLogLevel` is not explicity called as shown below. The file will be created but empty by default when running the `ReassembleXMLFileHandler` and `DisassembleXMLFileHandler` classes.

**NOTE**: The logging package used, `log4js`, requires `fs-extra` to be installed in your project as a dependency (`npm install --save fs-extra`).

```typescript
import {
  DisassembleXMLFileHandler,
  ReassembleXMLFileHandler,
  setLogLevel,
} from "xml-disassembler";

const debug: boolean = true;

if (debug) {
  setLogLevel("debug");
}

const disassembleHandler = new DisassembleXMLFileHandler();
await disassembleHandler.disassemble({
  xmlPath: "test/baselines/general",
  uniqueIdElements:
    "application,apexClass,name,externalDataSource,flow,object,apexPage,recordType,tab,field",
  prePurge: true,
  postPurge: true,
});

const reassembleHandler = new ReassembleXMLFileHandler();
await reassembleHandler.reassemble({
  xmlPath: "test/baselines/general/HR_Admin",
  fileExtension: "permissionset-meta.xml",
});
```

## Template

This project was created from a template provided by [Allan Oricil](https://github.com/AllanOricil). Thank you Allan!

His original [license](https://github.com/AllanOricil/js-template/blob/main/LICENSE) remains in this project.
